feat: add new migration guides [netlify-build] (#4783)
segmentio/segment-docs: src/connections/sources/catalog/libraries/mobile/apple/migration.md

---
title: Analytics for Swift Migration Guide

> strat: swift

Reviewer: ```suggestion
strat: swift
tags:
  - apple
  - swift
  - ios
```

> tags:

Reviewer: @alanjcharles Need to leave these in for searchability

```
{% endcodeexampletab %}
{% codeexampletab Objective-C %}

```objc
    SEGConfiguration *config = [[SEGConfiguration alloc] initWithWriteKey:@"<WRITE KEY>"];
    config.trackApplicationLifecycleEvents = YES;
    config.flushAt = 1;
    
    _analytics = [[SEGAnalytics alloc] initWithConfiguration: config];
```
{% endcodeexampletab %}
{% endcodeexample %}

> success ""

> > NOTE: Analytics-Swift supports running multiple instances of the analytics object, so it does not assume a singleton. However, if you’re migrating from Analytics-iOS and all your track calls are routed to the Analytics.shared() singleton, you can very easily forward these calls to your new Analytics-swift object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Analytics-Swift supports running multiple instances of the analytics object, so it does not assume a singleton. However, if you’re migrating from Analytics-iOS and all your track calls are routed to the `Analytics.shared()` singleton, you can these calls to your new Analytics-swift object.
```

> With this simple extension, all of your existing Segment calls should work with Analytics-Swift. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this extension, your existing Segment calls should work with Analytics-Swift. 
```

```swift
@extension Analytics {
    (SegAnalytics)shared() {
        return analytics; // or whatever variable name you're using
    } 
}
```
## 2. Upgrade your Destinations 

> If your app uses Segment to route data to Destinations via Segment-cloud (i.e. Cloud-mode destinations), you can skip this step. Analytics-Swift treats Device-mode Destinations as [plugins](/docs/connections/sources/catalog/libraries/mobile/swift/plugin-architecture), and simplifies the process in integrating them into your app. Analytics-Swift supports these [Device-Mode Destinations](/docs/connections/sources/catalog/libraries/mobile/swift/destination-plugins) with more to come. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your app uses Segment to route data to Destinations through Segment-cloud (for example, Cloud-mode destinations), you can skip this step. Analytics-Swift treats Device-mode Destinations as [plugins](/docs/connections/sources/catalog/libraries/mobile/swift/plugin-architecture), and simplifies the process of integrating them into your app. Analytics-Swift supports these [Device-Mode Destinations](/docs/connections/sources/catalog/libraries/mobile/swift/destination-plugins). 
```

### 2.a) Include Plugin via SPM 

```
.package(
            name: "Segment",
            url: "https://github.com/segment-integrations/analytics-swift-<destination>.git",
            from: "1.1.3"
        ),
```
### 2.b) Add Plugin to your Analytics instnace

```
import Segment
import Segment<Destination> // <-- Add this line
```

> Just under your Analytics-Swift library setup, call `analytics.add(plugin: ...)` to add an instance of the plugin to the Analytics timeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Under your Analytics-Swift library setup, call `analytics.add(plugin: ...)` to add an instance of the plugin to the Analytics timeline.
```

| `launchOptions`             | Removed in favor of the enrichment plugin that adds the default data to the event payloads.              |
| `maxQueueSize`              | Deprecated                                                                                                  |
| `recordScreenViews`         | Removed in favor of a plugin that provides the same functionality. Use the `UIKitScreenTracking` plugin. |
| `shouldUseBluetooth`        | Deprecated                                                                                                  |
| `shouldUseLocationServices` | Deprecated                                                                                                  |
| `trackAttributionData`      | This feature no longer exists.                                                                              |
| `trackInAppPurchases`       | Deprecated                                                                                                  |
| `trackPushNotifications`    | Deprecated                                                                                                  |

### Conclusion

> Hopefully this simplifies your migration to Analytics-Swift. Once you’re up and running, you can take advantage of Analytics-Swift’s additional features, such as Destination Filters, Functions & Typewriter support. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you’re up and running, you can take advantage of Analytics-Swift’s additional features, such as [Destination Filters](/docs/connections/sources/catalog/libraries/mobile/apple/swift-destination-plugins), [Functions](/docs/connections/functions/), and [Typewriter](/docs/connections/sources/catalog/libraries/mobile/apple/swift-typewriter) support. 
```
